On premises to AWS Cloud Migration

Phases of migration

1. Prepare
Connectivity establishment between on prem and cloud
Discovery - On prem 

data

50 applications - 200 servers - webserver, application, DB - Linux
Some servers are absolete - Older version RHEL 6.*
DB servers are running with Oracle
Storage of 500TB - Some data is not required need to identify
Networking aspect

Step 1 . Discovery - Application Discovery service (ADS) - Install this agent on all your On prem servers

Ansible - configuration management tool - install agent at once on all servers
ond linux server - install ansible - craete host file - include all IP addresses and then run ansible command
1. Port shud be open for each IPs
2. Whether same subnet
3. Same VPC - check for sg
4. Seperate VPC - VPN tunnel

Step 2. ADs will collect all the data from servers
CPU cores 
memory allocated
Suggest for instance types on aws

Step 3. Check for vversions 
Ansible - chekc for versions 
seggregate where older versions are there 
200 servers - 150 servers are latest version - support
50 servers older servers

Step 4. DB Srevers
need to get data on licensing 
how long is the validity

Step 5. Storage analysis
On which storage type have thier data - example-Optap
Data analysis

step 6. Initially checked the connectivity 
if its not established 



2. Plan

Steps: 
Plan for actual instance types that needs to be chosen
Licensing - make sure dedicated host , reserved, on demand
Vesions - 
150 servers are fine - Lift and shift - rehosting
50 srevers are old  - RHEL 6.* - Replatform
Storage - EFS

50 Applications

Grouping of applications

On AWS Side - You need start craeteing the Basic infrastructure

Landing zone
  application1 
    Prod, 
    dev, 
    stage , 
    qa


Wave based applications

Wave 1 - 3 applications - 50 servers



3. Migrate

Initiate the migration 
configurations - tool - will launch all the instance on aws using config - VPC, Subnet, Instance type

Cut over - 
App1 - www.xyz.com --> onpremises - deleted
map the traffic to AWS servers

rehosting/replatform

migrate/Modernisation


4. Operate Optimize

Monitoring , supprt






Connectivity between On premises and cloud

VPC in AWS - all the resources

On premises - servers

1. Site to site VPN - Operates over internet and speed depends on your ISP - 
immediately establish from console - Max 1GBPs

1. VPC - Virtual private Gateway
customer (onprem side) - customer gateway

VPN - map Vgw and CGW

onprem to cloud flow

server in onprem initiates - reach the customer gateway - cgw route to vgw -- traffic reaches vgw - vgw will have routes
to particulat vpc

2. Direct Connect - Dedicated channel netwoprk for on prem to AWS - you need to raise a support ticket - 
option to slecet the spped
