TCP/IP Model

1. This defines the category of functions that must occur for communication to be successfull
2. Open standard - Discussed in public forums and documents in as RFCs - Requests for Communication
3. RFCs contain - Formal specification of data communication protocols and resources that 
describe the use of the protocols

4. Communication Process

Steps
1. Creation of data at the application layer of the originating source end devices
2. Segmentation and encapsulation of data as it passes down the protocol stack on th source end device
3. Generation of data on to the media at Network Access layer of the stack
4. Transportation of data using intermediate devices
5. Reception of data at Network Access layer of the destination end devices
6. Decapsulation and reassemble of data at destination end device
7. Passing this data to the destination application at application layer of the destination end devices.


Protocol Data units

1. Data - General termionology at application  layer
2. Segment - PDU at transport layer
3. Packet - PDU for internetwork Layer
4. Frame - Network Access layer PDU
5. Bits - Physical transmission of data


Application Layer - Data creation
Presentation Layer - Encryption and decryption, Commpression of date , Conversioon of data and present to presentation layer
Session layer
1. Session to be created for an application
2. DNS - Domain Naming server protocol
3. http - Hypertext transfer protocol
4. SMTP - Simple mail Transfer Protocol

SSH - 22 
RDP - 3389
DNS - 53 (UDP/TCP)
HTTP - 80 (TCP)
HTTPS - 443 (TCP)
SMTP - 25 (TCP)
Telnet - 23 (TCP)
FTP - 20 and 21 (TCP)
DHCP - 67 and 68 (UDP)

DNS - Domain Naming Service

A record - end device address
NS Record - Name server - Authoritative server
SOA - Start of authority
CNAME - FQDNs - Fully qualified Domain Names coverted to IP address or vice versa
MX records - Mail exchange records

Example:
amazon.in - Domain Name
.in - top level domain
.co
.com
.au
.jp
.org


Port Addressing

IANA - Internet assigned Numbers Authority

Well Known Ports - (Numbers 0 to 1023) - SMTP
Registered Ports - (Number 1024 to 49151)
Private Ports - (Number 49152 to 65535) - Client applications

